-------------------------- MongoDB -------------------------- 

Video URL("https://youtu.be/J6mDkcqU_ZE?si=n6zQSGXEtUf_JWL_").

What is MongoDB? 
- MongoDB is a popular open-source, non-relational (NoSQL) database that stores data in a flexible, 
JSON-like format called BSON (Binary JSON). Unlike traditional relational databases that use tables and rows, 
MongoDB uses collections and documents, allowing for dynamic schemas and easy storage of complex, hierarchical data.

Key features:

Document-oriented: Data is stored as documents in collections, making it easy to represent real-world objects.
Schema-less: Collections do not require a fixed schema, so each document can have different fields.
Scalable: Supports horizontal scaling through sharding, making it suitable for large-scale applications.
High performance: Optimized for fast read and write operations.
Rich querying: Supports powerful queries, indexing, and aggregation.

Example Document:- 

{
  "name": "Kartikey Mishra",
  "email": "kartikey@gmail.com",
  "age": 25,
  "address": {
    "city": "Noida",
    "zip": "201301"
  }
}

Now how to install MongoDB Server. 
    1. Go to this URL("https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community"). 

    2. Download the ".tgz" file and extact it. 

    3. Open the extracted file and then open the bin folder. 

    4. Open the "mongod" file in terminal. 

    5. click on the cammand- mongod --help. This helps us to get all the possible commands inside a directory. 

    6. Now we need to change the data directory. This can be done by argument- --dbpath arg. 

    7. Please make sure to have the db folder in the correct place. 

    8. Now give this command "./mongod --dbpath Users/mongoServers/db". For your folder name 
    it as .mongod --pbpath Users/"your file name"/db


Now how to install MongoDB Compass and What is MongoDB Compass. 

MongoDB Compass- 
    MongoDB Compass is a graphical user interface (GUI) tool provided by MongoDB for visually exploring, 
    managing, and interacting with your MongoDB databases. It allows users to connect to MongoDB instances,
    view and edit documents, run queries, analyze schema, and monitor database performance—all without writing 
    command-line code.

Key features:
    Visualize and browse collections and documents
    Build and run queries with a visual query builder
    Analyze schema and data distributions
    Create, update, and delete documents
    View indexes and performance statistics


Download steps:- 
    1. Download the suitable file as per your operating system from here:- URL("https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/compass"). 
    
    2. Double click the downloaded file. 

    3. For Mac, drag and drop the MongoDB Compass icon to Application. This will install the app into your mac. 

    4. Windows users can follow along. 

Now as we already have the server up and running. We will launch the app and just click on connect and this 
will connect the Compass with the MongoDB server. 

Now I have create a demo Database- employees and then a collection named managers and i will need to create
documents in it. 

example:- 
    {
    "_id": {
        "$oid": "6898c7baf38228d94e961906"
    },
    "name": "rohan",
    "role": "programmer"
    }

Noted:- In MongoDB there is no need of Schema as we have in relational database. We can add documents with 
whatever schema we want and there won't be any issues and this makes MongoDB the most loved, scalable and 
fast database management tools. 

